TitoPay deployment build — 2026-08-17 UTC
Branch: claude/peach-payments-403-fix-6sv7cy
PWA bundle: v427 (titopay-pwa-v427-receipt-id)
Requires: api.zip build 55
Admin console: admin-console-v89

BUILD 55 — URGENT FIX FOR BUILD 54, WHICH COULD REFUSE TO START

   Build 54 treated a variable that had never been set as a reason to stop.
   Deploying it to a server that did not yet have TITOPAY_ENV and the three
   integration modes therefore STOPPED THE API. The check was right. The
   rollout was the outage.

   The two cases are now separated:

      NOT DECLARED   warns on every boot, reports itself on /health, and
                     SERVES. It is the state every existing server is already
                     in, and exactly how the platform has been running for
                     months. Refusing there breaks a working system to protect
                     it from a risk it already carries.

      CONTRADICTED   refuses. A production API on a database STAMPED sandbox,
                     an integration in the other environment, NODE_ENV
                     disagreeing with TITOPAY_ENV. Every one of those is only
                     reachable once the variables are deliberately set, so it
                     can never fell a server that was working a minute ago.

   Two more things that could have stopped a healthy server are gone:

      a database that cannot be REACHED now warns instead of refusing, so a
        Postgres hiccup during a restart no longer becomes a hard outage
      missing Peach CREDENTIALS now warn instead of refusing, because they can
        come from the stored integration config an operator sets in the admin
        console, which is invisible from the environment

   And Peach with no mode set keeps its historic production default with a
   one-line warning, rather than throwing. Build 54 would have failed every
   card top-up on a server that had never been given PEACH_PAYMENTS_MODE.

   VERIFIED ON AN EMPTY ENVIRONMENT: started with no variables at all and
   answered /v1/health with HTTP 200, reporting environment "undeclared" and
   environmentWarnings 4. That is the exact condition your server is in.

   Everything build 54 was for is still here. It is just visible instead of
   fatal, and it becomes strict by being configured rather than by a deploy.

PREVIOUS BUILD — THE CUSTOMER'S SLIP NO LONGER SHOWS A RAW MERCHANT ID

   Merchant ID is the MERCHANT'S. On their own slip it is the trading id they
   quote to Support and reconcile against. On the payer's copy the same field
   falls through to the QR CODE'S id, so a customer who had just paid was
   handed a bare UUID identifying nothing they could act on:

      Merchant ID   e2186835-f16c-4c8d-83ce-ec242302154f

   The Merchant NAME above it is what actually tells them who they paid, and
   that stays. The id is gone from the payer's copy and kept on the merchant's.

   Each receipt now records whose copy it is. A receipt saved BEFORE this
   change carries no role and keeps the row: hiding on unknown would have
   stripped a real identifier off every merchant slip already on a phone in
   order to tidy up a customer one.

   Read off a real rendered screen by verification/receipt-slips-live.js,
   which rings up R50 on a till, pays it from a second account in a second
   browser page, then opens BOTH receipts and reads the printed rows:

      THE CUSTOMER'S SLIP          THE MERCHANT'S SLIP
        Merchant Name  Corner Cafe   Merchant Name  Corner Cafe
        (no Merchant ID)             Merchant ID    <the merchant's>
        Amount         R 50.00       Amount         R 50.00
        Fees           R  1.50       Fees           R  2.25
        Total paid     R 51.50       Net Amount     R 47.75

   Six unit tests hold the same two rules against the SHIPPING source of
   receiptRows, not a copy of it, and were mutation-tested by putting the row
   back: the test fails naming what the customer is being shown.

   WHY THE PREVIOUS FIX APPEARED NOT TO WORK.

   v426 corrected the customer's net figure, and a receipt taken afterwards
   still showed the old one. The bundle was not at fault: app.titopay.co.za was
   serving v426 with the fix correctly compiled in. The APP ON THE PHONE was
   still running v425. The service worker calls skipWaiting() and
   clients.claim(), so the cache updates, but neither replaces JavaScript
   ALREADY RUNNING in an open page, and an installed PWA that is never fully
   closed keeps its copy indefinitely.

   FULLY CLOSE THE APP AFTER EVERY DEPLOY, or the fix is on the server and not
   on the phone. Making the app notice a new bundle and reload itself is a
   separate change, offered and not yet made.

PREVIOUS BUILD — THE API NOW REFUSES TO START ON AN UNSAFE ENVIRONMENT

   PEACH_PAYMENTS_MODE, DOCFOX_MODE and OTT_MODE each read

      process.env.X || "production"

   so an unset variable, a typo, or a stripped environment file put TitoPay in
   PRODUCTION silently. Going live could happen by omission.

   That default is gone. Those three, plus a new TITOPAY_ENV, must each be
   exactly "sandbox" or "production". Missing, empty, whitespace, "prod",
   "PRODUCTION", anything else: the process prints what is wrong and exits 78
   before it accepts a single request. It never guesses, in either direction.

   THE DATABASE NOW SAYS WHAT IT IS.

   Nothing stopped a production API opening the sandbox database, or a sandbox
   API opening production. Two checks now do:

      the database NAME, used only ever to REFUSE, never to approve
      an identity marker the database itself carries, which is authoritative

   The marker is one platform_settings row, written once, ON CONFLICT DO
   NOTHING. NO FINANCIAL TABLE GAINED A COLUMN. A database that has never been
   stamped is stamped to match the declared environment on first boot, so an
   existing deployment upgrades without ceremony; after that a disagreement is
   fatal, permanently, even if the databases are renamed or restored elsewhere.

   NODE_ENV IS DELIBERATELY NOT OVERLOADED.

   Two behaviours already key off it. Setting NODE_ENV=sandbox would turn the
   CUSTOMER REGISTRATION GEO-LOCK OFF by default and add 62 localhost origins
   to CORS, so carrying the deployment identity there would have turned a
   safety change into a safety regression. TITOPAY_ENV is separate and
   explicit; NODE_ENV keeps its ordinary meaning. Stating both and having them
   disagree is itself an error rather than something resolved by guessing.

   THE WEBHOOK WAS AUDITED, AND IT WAS ALREADY RIGHT.

   HMAC-SHA256 with a timing-safe compare, a timestamp window, a webhook-id
   format check, merchant/entity/amount/currency validation, and idempotency
   through INSERT ... ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING RETURNING with all processing
   gated behind it. It was not rewritten. What it lacked was PROOF, so 14 tests
   now hold it, including that a duplicate delivery is never PROCESSED a second
   time. Mutation-tested by removing the guard: the test fails with "a wallet
   would have been credited 2 times".

   /health carries an environment indicator now, purely an identifier, so an
   operator can tell which deployment answered. Every existing field keeps its
   name, type and position. No connection string, host, key or secret is
   exposed anywhere, in the response or in the startup log.

   WHAT WAS NOT TOUCHED.

      no customer data read beyond COUNT(*), deleted or modified
      no wallet balance, transaction, ledger row or revenue record changed
      no pricing changed
      no schema migration, destructive or otherwise
      no PWA change, no Admin change, no API contract change
      no authentication change

   Sandbox counts before and after are identical: 2,499 users, 1,961 wallets,
   2,347 transactions, 4,374 ledger rows, 588 revenue rows.

   781 tests pass. Eleven live harnesses pass.

PREVIOUS BUILD — GOING LIVE WITHOUT TEST MONEY BECOMING REAL MONEY

   npm run db:init-production            report only, writes nothing
   npm run db:init-production -- --apply do it

   Sandbox on TitoPay is NOT a separate database. It is one environment
   variable per integration choosing which URL and keys the server talks to,
   and no table records which mode created a row: transactions and wallets
   have no environment column. So flipping the keys leaves every test balance
   exactly where it is.

   That matters because a wallet balance becomes a CLAIM ON REAL MONEY the
   moment the keys are live. A test account holding R5000 could request a
   withdrawal and TitoPay would attempt to send R5000 of real money to a real
   bank account, funded from a float that never received it.

   THE ANSWER IS A CLEAN DATABASE, NOT A CLEANUP.

   This stands up a NEW production database and leaves the existing one as the
   test environment. Nothing is deleted, so nothing can go wrong irreversibly,
   and "is it clean?" becomes a row count rather than a hope.

      the schema, from the same files db:init uses
      the approved pricing schedule
      the service catalogue and the email templates
      THE REVENUE WALLET, which nothing else in the codebase creates and whose
        absence failed every fee-bearing payment in production
      the suspense wallet
      one admin account, when ADMIN_PASSWORD is supplied
      a verification pass that counts what exists and proves the invariants

   IT CANNOT DESTROY ANYTHING.

   No DROP, no DELETE, no TRUNCATE, and no UPDATE to a customer row. If it
   finds customer data it REFUSES OUTRIGHT, prints what it found and exits
   non-zero. There is no override flag, because a flag that lets you point it
   at the live database is the exact accident it exists to prevent. It writes
   nothing at all without --apply, and re-running it against its own output
   changes nothing.

   Four tests in the suite assert those properties against the script's own
   SOURCE, so a DELETE added later by anyone fails the build. Mutation-tested
   by adding one: it fails, naming the file and the pattern.

   PROVEN, IN THIS ORDER.

      pointed at the sandbox with --apply, it refused and exited 1, listing
        2,499 users and 4,374 ledger rows, having written nothing
      pointed at an empty database it set up 93 pricing rules, 31 templates,
        a revenue wallet opening at R0.00 and one admin
      re-run against its own output, it changed nothing
      the sandbox was then re-counted and is byte-for-byte unchanged
      and a real payment harness run against the BRAND NEW database settled
        five payments to the cent, so it is functional and not merely populated

   The runbook is GOING-LIVE.md in the repository root: the full sequence, the
   integration modes (all three default to "production" when unset, so going
   live can happen by omission), and the reminder that every A4 poster printed
   during testing must be reprinted, because its QR points at an account that
   will not exist on the new database.

PREVIOUS BUILD — AN EMAIL STATEMENT NOW ARRIVES AS A STATEMENT

   A customer pays a fee for an Email Statement. What the fee bought was an
   email whose body held the whole ledger typed out as monospace lines:

      DATE | TYPE | AMOUNT | BALANCE | REFERENCE
      2026-08-16 23:23 | CREDIT | +R 97.00 | R 1854.10 | TX-1786922588288-ZPUB66

   On a phone every one of those wrapped across three rows and the columns
   stopped lining up. The one thing the fee buys is a document you can send to
   a bank or a landlord, and that could not be used as one.

   IT IS NOW AN ATTACHED A4 PDF.

      the TitoPay wordmark, the statement reference, the period
      the account holder, their email, the wallet number, the account type
      the FICA-VERIFIED IDENTITY where the account has an approved review,
        which is what makes a statement usable at a bank
      money in, money out, net movement and closing balance
      the ledger as a real table, credits green and debits red, ruled rows,
        a running balance, and page furniture that repeats the table head so
        page two is readable on its own

   Rendered locally with pdfkit, the same way the ticket PDF already is. No
   fonts fetched, no images fetched, nothing leaves the server to build it.

   AND THE EMAIL IS A COVERING NOTE.

   A clean summary table, then "your full statement is attached as a PDF". The
   plain-text half of the message still carries the whole ledger, because the
   fee has already been charged: if a PDF cannot be built for any reason the
   customer still receives everything they paid for, and the note in the email
   says which of the two they are holding.

   Templated email could not carry a file at all before this. Only the raw path
   could, so anything needing an attachment had to give up its admin-editable
   template. Every provider already read content.attachments, so this was one
   missing line rather than a new capability.

   A FIXUP MECHANISM THAT HAS NEVER ONCE WORKED.

   seedDefaultTemplates carries copy corrections for templates already seeded
   with older wording, guarded on the old text so an operator's own edit is
   never overwritten. Every one of them ran:

      UPDATE email_templates SET body = ...

   email_templates has html_body and text_body. It has never had a `body`. So
   each statement threw "column does not exist" straight into a .catch(() => {})
   and NO copy correction shipped this way has ever reached a live database:
   the OTP wording fix and all three receipt rewrites have been dead since the
   day they were written. They now write the two real columns, still guarded on
   the old text, and a failure is logged instead of swallowed silently.

   Proven in verification/statement-pdf-live.js, which runs the real charged
   path, decrypts what actually went into the send queue, and reads the
   finished PDF back out of the attachment: the fee, the attachment, a
   well-formed document, the holder and reference on it, every wallet movement
   present with the totals, a body with no monospace dump, a text part that
   still carries the ledger, and the verified identity block. 8 checks.

PREVIOUS BUILD — THE PERSON WHO WAS PAID IS NOW TOLD

   Every receipt TitoPay has ever sent went to the person who PAID. Nothing
   was ever sent to the person who was PAID. So a Payment A4 poster on a
   counter, a Tip A4 poster on a table, a till, an event selling tickets and
   money sent to a username all produced silence on the receiving side.

   The only recipient-side notice in the entire codebase belonged to a gift.

   The "Payment received" line on the merchant POS is written by the till
   SCREEN in the browser, and only while that screen is open. A poster on a
   wall with nobody watching a screen produced nothing at all.

   WHAT NOW HAPPENS, ON EVERY PAYMENT.

      in-app   always. It costs nothing and it is where people look.
      email    when the customer has transaction receipts switched on, which
               is the same switch that governs the payer's own receipt.

   Not SMS. Transactional comms on TitoPay are in-app and email. The SMS
   provider exists and is used for one-time passcodes; it is not used here.

   THE FIGURE IS THE ONE THE WALLET MOVED BY.

   The notice states the NET that reached the wallet, after the receiver's own
   fee, so it agrees with the balance rather than with the sticker price. On a
   R250 QR sale the business is told "You received R244.75", not R250.00, and
   the fee is named in the same breath.

   ONE NOTIFIER, CALLED FROM EVERY PATH THAT PAYS SOMEBODY.

   api/src/services/payment-received-service.js is the only place that writes
   these. createTransaction calls it, which covers QR payments from a poster or
   a till, money sent to a username, a paid payment request, a bill split and a
   stokvel contribution. The ticket sale calls it separately, because it credits
   the organiser through applyWalletMovement and never passed the place where
   receipts are written. Adding a new way to be paid means adding one call,
   not remembering to write a notification again.

   NOTHING IS ANNOUNCED TWICE.

   A gift keeps its own richer notice, which carries the sender, the occasion
   and their message. A held credit keeps notifyHold, which says the money has
   NOT arrived yet. The email is keyed on the transaction, so a retried
   delivery cannot double-announce a single payment.

   AND NOTHING HERE CAN EVER FAIL A PAYMENT. The money has already moved by the
   time any of it runs. Every path is wrapped: a customer who was paid but not
   told is a bad day, a payment rolled back because an email queue was busy is
   a disaster.

   Proven in verification/payment-received-notices-live.js, which pays real
   posters with real money and then asks the database what the receiver was
   told: both posters, money to a username, a ticket sale reaching its
   organiser, the net figure matching the wallet to the cent, the email switch
   honoured, no double notice, and the gift left alone. 8 checks.

PREVIOUS BUILD — A PERSON PAYS A FLAT R1.50 TO PAY BY QR. THE BUSINESS CARRIES THE PERCENTAGE.

   Customer:  a flat R1.50, whatever the sale, charged ON TOP.
   Business:  R1.50 + 1.5% of the sale, taken OUT OF what is credited.

   A person pays the same R1.50 on a R20 coffee as on a R5000 sofa. Nothing on
   the customer's side moves with the sale, so there is nothing left to cap.

   WHAT MOVES.

      sale        customer pays   business gets   TitoPay
      R   10        R   11.50       R    8.35     R  3.15
      R   50        R   51.50       R   47.75     R  3.75
      R  250        R  251.50       R  244.75     R  6.75
      R  850        R  851.50       R  835.75     R 15.75
      R 5000        R 5001.50       R 4923.50     R 78.00

   Verified cent by cent on real payments through the real service, checking on
   every one that debited - credited - revenue == 0.
   verification/qr-two-sided-pricing-live.js

   WHERE THIS CAME FROM.

   It was a flat R0.50 from the customer and NOTHING from the business. A
   merchant_qr_payment rule has sat in the pricing schedule since the day it
   was written, at 1.7%, read by no code at all: every business on TitoPay has
   been settled at 0% on every QR payment the platform has ever processed.

   Build 49 put R1.50 + 1% capped at R10 on the customer. That percentage now
   moves to the business, where the sale is being earned, and the customer's
   side is the flat R1.50 alone.

   A SALE TOO SMALL TO CARRY ITS OWN FEE IS NOW REFUSED.

   The business side has a flat component, so under about R1.52 the fee reaches
   the whole sale. Rather than taking the customer's money, crediting the
   business nothing and reporting success, the payment is refused before
   anything moves and the message says the real reason.

   THE R0.50 FLOOR IN THE CODE IS GONE, AND SO ARE THE TWO THAT PUT IT BACK.

   calculateFee ended with a hardcoded Math.max(fee, 0.50). An admin could set
   the QR fee to R0.20 in the console, see it saved, and customers would still
   be charged R0.50. Two more copies of the same idea sat in the schema repair
   and in the service catalogue, pushing the price and the wording back to
   R0.50 on every start, so the QR Pay tile would have gone on advertising a
   price nobody is charged. All three are corrected: what an admin sets is what
   is charged, and the tile now reads a flat R1.50.

   HOW THE LIVE RULES MOVE.

   A one-shot fixup runs on boot, guarded on a platform_settings key AND on the
   old values. It lists every rate TitoPay itself has ever set — the original
   R0.50 and 1.7%, and build 49's R1.50 + 1% and 1.5% — so a database sitting on
   any of them converges, and a rate an operator has tuned by hand is left
   exactly as they set it.

   THE SLIPS SAY WHOSE FEE IS WHOSE.

   The merchant's slip carries the business's fee and what reached the wallet.
   The customer's carries their own R1.50 and Total paid. The merchant's slip
   showed Fees R0.00, and the customer's printed the MERCHANT'S net as the
   customer's own figure.

PREVIOUS BUILD — THE MERCHANT POS NOW BEHAVES LIKE A SOFT POS

   A till puts a code on screen, the customer pays, and the screen turns over
   with a slip. This one said "Waiting for payment..." until it expired, on
   EVERY completed sale, with the money already in the wallet. Three separate
   faults, stacked.

   1. EVERY SALE WAS CANCELLED THE INSTANT ITS QR APPEARED.

      closeModal() ended a live sale whenever it ran. openModal() calls
      closeModal() before it opens the next thing — so rendering the QR screen
      cancelled the sale that had just been started, one line before the timers
      were set.

      Everything downstream then read as broken and none of it was. The
      countdown froze at 05:00 because its tick returns unless the status is
      "waiting". The payment poll bailed for the same reason. One line, three
      symptoms.

      A sale is cancelled when a PERSON dismisses the sheet: the X, the
      backdrop, Escape, the back gesture. All of those call closeModal() with no
      argument. openModal's internal swap already passes preserveStack, which is
      the same distinction the back trail relies on, so that is what is used.

   2. THE TILL WAS LOOKING FOR THE PAYMENT WHERE IT CANNOT BE.

      It searched the MERCHANT'S OWN transaction list for a credit of the right
      amount. There has never been such a row. A payment writes ONE transactions
      row and it belongs to the PAYER; the merchant is credited through
      wallet_ledger, and listTransactionsForUser filters on t.user_id.

      GET /v1/qr/:id/status (API build 48) answers the question directly, for
      the owner of the code and nobody else. The till polls it every two
      seconds while the code is up. Another business asking about that code gets
      "QR code not found", because whether a code has been paid is the
      merchant's business alone.

   3. THE SLIP SHORTCHANGED THE MERCHANT BY THE CUSTOMER'S FEE.

      On a QR payment the R0.50 is the PAYER'S: they are debited R250.50 and the
      merchant is credited R250.00 in full. The slip subtracted that fee from
      the takings, so a R250.00 sale printed as R249.50 received — a figure
      neither party ever saw. The server now states what was received, and the
      payer's fee is carried separately so a slip can show it without implying
      the merchant paid it.

   Proven in verification/merchant-pos-live.js, which runs a real till against a
   real customer: ring up R250 on the keypad, generate the code, the countdown
   TICKS, another business is refused the status, the customer pays from their
   own account, and the till turns over BY ITSELF with nothing clicked. The slip
   says received R250.00, merchant fee R0.00, and the wallet agrees: +R250.00.
   7 checks.


A SUCCESSFUL QR PAYMENT WAS BEING REPORTED AS A FAILURE

   THE PAYMENT WENT THROUGH. THE APP SAID "Can't find variable: data".

   confirmReviewedQrPayment() sends the payment with context.data, correctly.
   Then, AFTER the money has moved, it built the receipt from a bare `data` —
   a name declared nowhere in that function. app.js is strict mode, so that is a
   ReferenceError, and Safari words it exactly as above.

   It had been there for as long as the function had, and could not be seen,
   because /v1/qr/pay was failing earlier in the function for an unrelated
   reason (no revenue wallet) and the receipt block was never reached. The first
   QR payment that actually succeeded hit it immediately.

   A CUSTOMER TOLD A COMPLETED PAYMENT FAILED WILL PAY AGAIN. That is the worst
   thing this screen can do, so two things changed, not one:

     the five bare `data` reads are context.data, which is what they meant
     everything after the money moves is wrapped, so no receipt, notification
       or refresh error can ever again present as a failed payment

   The success message is shown after that guard, so it is shown either way. If
   the receipt cannot be written the failure goes to the console and the
   customer is left pointed at Activity, which is the server-side record and the
   thing that is actually true.

   TWO TESTS, AND BOTH WERE MUTATION-TESTED BY PUTTING THE BUG BACK.

   api/test/pwa-free-variables.test.js fails the build if any function in the
   bundle reads data.something without a `data` in scope, and separately if the
   post-payment block is ever unwrapped or the receipt goes back to reading a
   free name. Restoring one of the five original lines fails both.


THE PAYER NO LONGER TYPES A PRICE THE TILL IS ALREADY SHOWING THEM

   Make a Sale mints a code for one exact amount, and the till screen shows it:
   R 300,00, in large type, facing the customer.

   The payer scanned it and got an EMPTY amount box.

   The code carried the price. The API knew the price. The screen in front of
   them showed the price. The one thing the app did was ask them to copy it in
   by hand, which is also the only way left to get it wrong, since build 45
   refuses any figure other than the merchant's.

   Scanning a code that carries a price now fills it in and locks it, and the
   capture note names who is being paid:

     "R 300.00 to Corner Cafe. Check the name, then pay."

   Typing or pasting a QR ID by hand does the same thing, so the two routes into
   that screen behave alike.

   AN OPEN CODE IS UNCHANGED. A static till code names no price, so the amount
   box stays empty and editable and the payer names the amount, exactly as
   before. The note still tells them who they are paying.

   A failed lookup is not a failed scan: the id is captured either way, the
   amount box stays editable, and the payment works as it did.

   Proven in verification/qr-scanner-camera-live.js, driven with a real camera
   feed, now 8 checks: the code is found and its id recovered, the price is
   filled in and locked, an open code is left empty and editable, a code printed
   before the payload was trimmed still scans, and a blank camera produces no
   false read.


QR CODES ARE FAR EASIER TO SCAN

   The scanner itself was never broken. It was driven with a REAL camera feed:
   a video of a live TitoPay payment QR handed to Chromium as its webcam, with
   the app told nothing. It opened the camera, found the code and recovered the
   right id, and a blank camera correctly produced no false read.

   What was wrong is the codes themselves, and it is measurable.

   1. THE IMAGE CARRIED 219 CHARACTERS THE SERVER NEVER READS.

      Encoded into every printed code: the id, the owner's account UUID, the
      amount, the currency, the reference, the label and a metadata object.

      payQr reads NONE of that. The owner, the price, the status and the expiry
      all come from the qr_codes row, keyed on the id alone, which is why a
      forged payload has always changed nothing. All of it was dead weight.

        was    219 characters    61 x 61 modules
        now     66 characters    37 x 37 modules

      At one printed size that makes each module about 65% wider, which is the
      single biggest thing that can be done for scanning reliability. A phone
      across a counter, a poster at an angle, a code on a lit screen: all of
      them get easier.

   2. THE QUIET ZONE WAS ONE MODULE. THE STANDARD REQUIRES FOUR.

      A camera finds a code by locating its three finder patterns against clear
      space. Starve that space and the lock fails, most often in exactly the
      conditions a till is in: a busy counter, a printed sheet with text beside
      it, a code shown on a screen.

   EVERY CODE ALREADY PRINTED STILL SCANS. Proven, not assumed: the harness
   builds a video of the OLD long-form payload and the scanner still recovers
   the right id from it. The id is the only field anything has ever read.

   Reprinting the A4 posters is worth doing once this is live, because that is
   where the bigger modules actually help. Nothing breaks if you do not.

   Proven in verification/qr-scanner-camera-live.js, 6 checks with a real
   camera feed, and 2 more pinned in the build.


THE EVENT WEB ADDRESS READS LIKE ONE

   A free name has always been used exactly as it is:

     app.titopay.co.za/events/titopay-launch

   What was ugly was the COLLISION, when a second event wants a name another
   event already holds. That appended six characters of a sha1 digest:

     app.titopay.co.za/events/titopay-launch-3d4c29

   Nobody can read that, nobody can say it down a phone, and it looks like a
   fault rather than an address. It is now the obvious thing, the way every
   publishing tool does it: the next free number.

     titopay-launch
     titopay-launch-2
     titopay-launch-3

   A long name is also no longer cut leaving a dangling hyphen. The 70-character
   limit is applied before the trailing hyphen is stripped, so a name that got
   cut mid-word used to end up as "the-annual-general-" as a web address.

   NEW ADDRESSES ONLY. Every event already published keeps the exact slug it
   has, so nothing already shared, printed or posted changes. Measured against
   the whole events table: 222 existing addresses, none moved.

   Proven in verification/event-slug-live.js: a free name is untouched, a second
   gets -2 and a third -3, a long name has no dangling hyphen, punctuation,
   accents and emoji never reach the address, renaming an event to its own name
   keeps its address, and every existing address is left alone. 7 checks, plus
   4 pinned in the build.


SECURITY: A PAYER COULD SET THEIR OWN PRICE ON A SALE

   THIS IS THE MOST SERIOUS THING FOUND IN THIS WHOLE RUN OF WORK. IT WAS
   EXPLOITABLE FROM AN ORDINARY CUSTOMER ACCOUNT, WITH NO SPECIAL ACCESS.

   Make a Sale mints a DYNAMIC QR for one exact amount and shows "Waiting for
   payment...". The server read the amount like this:

     const amount = Number(payload.amount ?? qr.amount ?? 0);

   payload is the REQUEST BODY. So the payer's phone won, and the merchant's own
   price was only a fallback for when the payer sent none.

   Measured, on a real R200 sale:

     the payer sent amount: 1
     the merchant was credited          R1.00
     the code was marked PAID
     the till screen turned over to a completed sale

   A QR code is handed to strangers by design. It is on a poster on a wall, on a
   till screen, in somebody's camera roll. Everything inside it is readable and
   editable by whoever is paying, and the payer's phone has to be assumed
   hostile. Only the ID may be trusted from a scan.

   The amount is now read from TitoPay's own row. A payer who sends a different
   figure is refused outright rather than silently corrected, because nobody may
   be charged an amount they did not see on their own review screen:

     "This QR code is for R200.00. Scan it again to pay the amount the merchant
      asked for. Nothing was taken from your wallet."

   An OPEN code, which carries no price, is unchanged: the payer names the
   amount, because on those the merchant never named one. And the app now shows
   the merchant's figure on the review screen rather than asking for one, so
   nobody walks into that refusal.

   ALSO REMOVED: THE ACCOUNT ID PRINTED ON EVERY POSTER.

   The QR payload encoded into the image carried the owner's internal account
   UUID, so it was sitting in public on every A4 sheet TitoPay has ever printed
   and in every photograph of one. Nothing read it: the owner has always been
   resolved from the qr_codes row by id, which is why a forged one has always
   been ignored. It is gone from newly minted codes.

   EVERY CODE ALREADY PRINTED KEEPS WORKING. The id is the only field the server
   has ever trusted, and it has not changed.

   THE FULL AUDIT, WHICH IS WHAT FOUND IT.

   verification/qr-tamper-audit.js attacks a payment QR from an ordinary
   customer account over the real HTTP API. All twelve now hold:

     a payer cannot set their own price on a dynamic QR
     and the honest payment still settles at the merchant's price
     a dynamic QR cannot be paid twice
     a forged userId in the scanned payload changes nothing
     an expired QR is refused
     a revoked QR is refused
     zero, negative, non-numeric and overflow amounts are all refused
     every QR id is a random v4 UUID, so codes cannot be enumerated
     an event ticket is refused as a payment instrument
     malformed, oversized and injection-shaped scans answer a clean refusal
     the QR owner lookup discloses a name, a username and a type, nothing else
     the printed QR carries no internal account identifier

   Five of those are also pinned as build tests in
   api/test/qr-payment-integrity.test.js, so none of them can quietly come undone.


THE EVENT SHARE LINK IS THE REAL ONE NOW

   Tapping Share on an event put THIS on the clipboard:

     https://api.titopay.co.za/v1/ticketing/public/events/titopay-launch/preview

   It worked, and it landed in the right place. It also meant every organiser
   was sending their audience a URL that reads like a developer path, on the one
   screen whose whole job is to make an event look real and worth buying into.

   The reason it existed is genuine. WhatsApp, Facebook, X, Slack and iMessage
   fetch a URL and read its <meta> tags, and they do NOT run JavaScript. This
   app renders itself on the phone, so a link straight into it previewed as a
   bare "TitoPay" with no title, no date and no poster.

   The answer was never to make the human's link ugly. It is to send only the
   CRAWLERS to the preview:

     a person       gets https://app.titopay.co.za/events/<name>, the app
     a crawler      is redirected by the app's own .htaccess to the preview,
                    reads the tags there, and shows a rich card

   The preview page is unchanged and still exists, so every link already shared
   keeps working exactly as it did.

   THE POSTER NOW APPEARS IN THE PREVIEW. IT NEVER HAS BEFORE.

   Posters are stored as data: URLs, which is right for the app and useless to
   a crawler: og:image was only ever emitted for an http(s) URL, so it was
   omitted on every event that has ever existed. Checked against the live
   TitoPay Launch event: no og:image at all.

   A new public route serves the poster as real image bytes, decoded from the
   same column. Read-only, no authentication, approved events only, cached for
   an hour, and it refuses anything that is not an image. An event with no
   poster offers no og:image rather than one that 404s.

   AND THE DESCRIPTION NO LONGER STOPS MID-WORD.

   It used to slice the raw text at 160 characters, so the live event previewed
   as "...users can manage their" with the description's own line breaks still
   in it, inside an HTML attribute. It is now flattened and cut at a word
   boundary with an ellipsis.

   PROVEN, INCLUDING AGAINST A REAL APACHE.

   verification/event-share-link-live.js: 9 checks over the live API. The app
   shares the app link, the preview carries the title and points at the app
   link, og:image points at a fetchable poster, that URL returns real PNG bytes
   with an image content type, the description has no raw line breaks and no
   mid-word cut, a promoter's ?ref= survives the hop, an event with no poster
   offers no og:image, and the Apache rule matches /events/<slug> and nothing
   else.

   The .htaccess rule was then run through a REAL Apache with this exact file:

     a person on iPhone Safari    /events/<slug>  200   and every other path 200
     WhatsApp, Facebook, X,
       Slack, LinkedIn, Telegram  /events/<slug>  302   to the preview
     a crawler on ANY other path  /, /dashboard, /assets/..., /verify-email/,
                                  /events, /events/a/b   all 200, untouched
     ?ref=ABC123                  survives the redirect
     app.js, styles.css, .md, .ht still 403, for people and crawlers alike


THE PRINTED A4 POSTERS NAMED THE WRONG PERSON

   A Payment A4 poster and a Tip A4 poster are downloaded once and stuck on a
   counter, where they stay for months. Nothing about a printed sheet can be
   corrected afterwards, so what is on it has to be right the first time.

   THE POSTER AND THE PAYER'S PHONE DISAGREED ABOUT WHO WAS BEING PAID.

   The poster printed a name resolved from the phone's own session, which falls
   back to the owner's personal full name when no business name is on it. The
   payer's review screen names the merchant. So the counter said one thing and
   the phone about to pay it said another, on the exact screen the app tells
   people to check one against the other.

   Measured on one account, before the fix:

     the poster printed      "qp0573980 Person 121"
     the payer's phone said  "qp0573980 Corner Cafe"

   Nobody saw this until now, because until build 43 the payer's phone said
   "Owner not confirmed" and there was nothing to disagree with.

   The poster now asks the SAME endpoint the payer's review screen asks and
   prints the answer. They cannot disagree, because there is only one source. A
   failed lookup falls back to the old local name rather than blocking the
   poster, so an older API still prints a sheet.

   AND THE PRINTED CODES THEMSELVES WERE PROVEN, NOT ASSUMED.

   verification/qr-poster-scan-live.js does not trust any id the app happens to
   be holding. It takes the QR IMAGE off the rendered poster, decodes it with
   jsQR exactly as the in-app scanner does, and drives everything from the
   string the decoder returns. For BOTH posters:

     the printed QR decodes off the page                        268x268 pixels
     the scanner classifies it as a payment code and recovers the id
     the printed "QR ID" footer is the same id the scan produces, so a
       customer who types it in by hand reaches the same place
     the owner is traced, and the name MATCHES the name on the poster
     paying the scanned code settles at payer -R150.50, owner +R150.00
     an event ticket scanned at a till is still not a payment code

   12 checks. A test also fails the build if the poster ever goes back to
   naming the owner from the session object.

   PAYMENT INTEGRITY IS UNCHANGED BY ANY OF THIS. Re-run against this bundle:
   8 QR payment integrity checks, 13 money path checks including "every cent
   debited is credited somewhere", 23 money screen checks, 697 API tests.


THE QR PAYMENT SCREEN, AND ONE FAULT THAT WAS LOSING MONEY

   FOUR THINGS. THE SECOND IS THE SERIOUS ONE.

   1. THE OWNER OF A QR CODE CAN FINALLY BE NAMED.

      The review screen has always had a card for this and it has always read
      "Owner not confirmed" -- for every code, every customer, every time --
      because the app called GET /v1/qr/{id}/details and that endpoint was
      never built. The Security Tip screen tells people to read the verified
      recipient name before pressing Confirm. There was no name to read.

      The endpoint exists in build 43. The review now shows who owns the code:
      a registered business under its business name, a person under the name on
      their verified identity, with the TitoPay username beside it. It returns
      nothing else. No email address, no phone number, no wallet number, no
      balance, because a payment QR is shown to strangers by design.

      On an older API the caution card still appears, which remains the honest
      answer when nothing can be confirmed.

   2. A PAYMENT WITH NOBODY TO CREDIT TOOK THE MONEY ANYWAY.

      The recipient was credited only if their wallet could be resolved, and
      there was no other branch. A QR code whose owner had no wallet row
      therefore debited the payer in full, collected the fee, credited nobody,
      held nothing, and reported the payment as completed.

      Measured before the fix, on a R200 payment: R200.50 left the payer,
      R0.50 reached the revenue wallet, and R200.00 existed nowhere at all.

      Such a payment is now refused before anything moves, with a sentence that
      says plainly that nothing was taken. Only the wallet-to-wallet services
      reach that line, so nothing that legitimately pays out elsewhere is
      affected, and an ordinary QR payment settles exactly as it always did.

   3. PAYING YOUR OWN QR CODE IS REFUSED.

      It moved money in a circle and charged the fee for doing it. The review
      screen now says so before Confirm, and the API refuses it after.

   4. "UNABLE TO COMPLETE THE REQUEST" HAD A CAUSE, AND NOW IT NAMES ITSELF.

      Nothing in the codebase creates the TitoPay revenue wallet; it is
      provisioned once by scripts/ensure-revenue-wallet.js --create. Without it
      every fee-bearing wallet payment fails at Confirm while the fee preview on
      the same screen works perfectly, because only the settlement needs it.

      The error it raised was written for an operator, and the API correctly
      refuses to show an unauthored 5xx to a customer, so what reached the phone
      was the blanket "Unable to complete the request. Please try again."
      Nothing named the cause, on the phone or in the admin console.

      Two changes. The customer is now told that nothing was taken from their
      wallet, that this is a fault on TitoPay's side and not their account, and
      to contact Support -- without being shown TitoPay's internal wallet
      architecture. And the admin console's "revenue wallet exists" probe used
      to pass whenever the query RAN, so it reported OK on a database that had
      never had one. A probe that must return a row now fails when it does not.

      IF YOUR QR PAYMENTS ARE FAILING, THIS IS THE FIRST THING TO CHECK:

        node scripts/ensure-revenue-wallet.js            reports, changes nothing
        node scripts/ensure-revenue-wallet.js --create   provisions it

   Proven in verification/qr-payment-integrity-live.js over the real HTTP API:
   the owner is named and nothing private leaks, a payment with no recipient is
   refused with the payer's balance identical before and after, a self-payment
   is refused and costs nothing, an ordinary payment still settles at payer
   -R200.50 and merchant +R200.00, and a missing revenue wallet produces a
   sentence a person can act on. 8 checks.

   Also verified unchanged: 13/13 money path checks, including "every cent
   debited is credited somewhere".


A BUSINESS CAN START FROM ITS COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER

   Limits & Verification offered a South African ID, a passport and "other
   approved identity document". A business owner holding a CIPC certificate and
   nothing else had no option on that screen at all.

   The screen that DOES take a registration number, Business Verification, then
   refused to show its form until the owner had already verified themselves with
   an identity document. So the two screens pointed at each other and the only
   way out was the ID number, which is exactly what it looked like from inside.

   TWO CHANGES, AND THE SECOND IS THE ONE THAT MATTERS.

   1. A FOURTH OPTION, ON BUSINESS ACCOUNTS ONLY.

      Identity document now reads: South African ID, Passport, Company
      registration number, Other approved identity document. Choosing the third
      swaps the lower half of the form to the business name, the type of
      business and the registration number, and the button becomes Add this
      business. A personal account still sees three options and never sees a
      company field.

      A sole proprietor, partnership or informal trader has no registration
      number and is still never asked for one.

   2. THE BUSINESS CAN BE RECORDED BEFORE THE PERSON IS VERIFIED.

      Capturing an entity is not verifying it. Writing down a name and a
      registration number proves nothing on its own, so there was nothing to
      protect by refusing it, and refusing it is what created the loop.

      WHAT DID NOT CHANGE, AND MUST NOT: a company registration number does not
      verify a person and does not move a limit. It says a company is on a
      register anybody can search. It says nothing about who is holding the
      phone. The business is recorded as unverified and stays that way, and it
      cannot be submitted for verification until a person is verified behind it.

   Proven in verification/business-registration-option.js, driven in a real
   browser: a business account sees four options and a personal account sees
   three, the form swaps, the business is written with its registration number,
   the person is STILL unverified afterwards, the business is unverified, the
   submit is refused with a reason a person can read, and a sole proprietor is
   accepted with no number at all. 9 checks.

   A test fails the build if that branch is ever pointed at the personal
   verification endpoint, or if it ever tells a customer their identity is
   verified.


THE EVENT POSTER: VISIBLE ON THE SHARED LINK, RIGHT SHAPE, AND CHANGEABLE

   THREE THINGS. THE FIRST IS THE ONE A CUSTOMER SEES FIRST.

   0. THE SHARED EVENT LINK SHOWED NO POSTER AT ALL.

      One event has two screens in the app, and only one of them is reached by
      tapping a card:

        the in-app sheet, opened from Events, which drew the poster
        the standalone screen a shared titopay.co.za/events/<name> link opens,
          which never drew it

      The second one is the screen that matters most, because it is what an
      organiser sends to their audience and what someone without the app sees.
      It opened on a heading and a wall of text, with the poster nowhere on it.

      The poster was in the payload the whole time. That screen simply never
      rendered it. It now shows it at the top, at the same 16:9 the event card
      uses, so the link and the card agree. An event with no poster is unchanged.

      Nothing else on that screen moved: the tickets, the price, the venue, the
      organiser links and the buy flow are all exactly where they were.

   1. THE DIMENSIONS WE ASKED FOR WERE THE WRONG ONES.

      The Create Event form asked for portrait 1080 x 1350 (4:5). The event
      card renders the poster at 16:9 with background-size: cover. So a poster
      made to our own spec had roughly two thirds of its height cropped away,
      keeping only a band across the middle. On a text-heavy poster the result
      was unreadable, with the heading clipped off the top.

      The form now asks for landscape 1920 x 1080 (16:9), which is the shape
      the card actually draws, and says plainly what happens to a portrait
      image if one is used anyway. Nothing about the card changed, so every
      poster already uploaded looks exactly as it does today.

   2. THE ORGANISER CAN REPLACE THE POSTER ON A LIVE EVENT.

      Approved events could not be edited in the app at all, which meant a
      wrong poster on a selling event could only be fixed by an admin. The
      poster is now the one exception: Business Ticketing > Events shows the
      current poster with an Add or Replace poster control, and the change is
      live at once.

      Everything else on an approved event still goes through the change
      request an admin reviews. The date, the venue, the price and the refund
      terms are what a buyer decided on; the poster is the shop window.

      Every replacement is written to that event's audit trail with who did it
      and when. A cancelled or finished event refuses, with a reason a person
      can read. Another business cannot touch it.

   Proven in verification/event-poster-replace-live.js against a real approved
   event selling paid tickets: the ordinary edit path still refuses it, the
   poster alone changes, the event stays approved with nothing else moved, the
   audit row is written, an empty upload is refused rather than wiping the
   poster, and another business is turned away. 8 checks.

   NEW: verification/event-poster-shared-link.js opens a real shared link in a
   real browser and measures what is on the page. Run against the v416 bundle it
   fails on "no poster on the shared-link screen"; against this one it passes 7,
   including that the browser decoded the image and drew it at 16:9.


THE SECURITY TIP SCREEN IS BACK AFTER SIGN-IN

   THIS IS A FAULT v413 INTRODUCED, AND THIS BUILD FIXES IT.

   The back-gesture work in v413 made every popstate close the top layer. But
   setting location.hash ALSO fires popstate, and signing in does exactly that
   with a sheet still open: it sets the route to dashboard, closes the sign-in
   sheet, then opens the Security Tip screen. The close ran a moment later, by
   which time the sheet on screen was the Security Tip screen rather than the
   sign-in sheet the gesture was aimed at, so it closed the wrong one.

   The result was that the Security Tip screen stopped appearing after sign-in
   in v413 and v414. Nothing errored, nothing was logged, and the screen itself
   was never broken: it opened and was removed a fraction of a second later.

   A popstate that moved the route is now recognised for what it is and closes
   nothing, and any close is checked against the exact sheet that was on screen
   when the gesture arrived.

   NEW: verification/pwa-sign-in-journey.spec.js drives the real journey -- tap
   Sign in, type, press the button -- and watches for eight seconds. Run against
   the v414 bundle it fails five checks; against this one it passes twelve. The
   original testing called showSecurityTipModal() directly, which worked
   perfectly while the journey was broken, and that is exactly why this was
   missed.

   Every back-gesture behaviour from v413 still holds: 19 native feel checks
   pass, including closing a sheet, the Pay hub, and a dialog over a sheet.


THE BUSINESS NOTE THAT v416 ADDED IS NOW THE OPTION ITSELF

   v416 added one sentence to "Verify your identity" on a business account,
   telling the owner that their registration number belonged on a different
   screen. That was honest, and it was not enough: the screen it pointed at
   would not show its form until the owner had already verified themselves,
   so the sentence sent people to a door that was locked from the other side.

   The sentence is replaced by the fourth option described at the top of these
   notes. A business owner can now act on that screen rather than be redirected
   from it. Personal accounts see no change at all.


EVERYTHING BELOW ARRIVED IN v413, AND SHIPS WITH THIS UPLOAD

THE APP BEHAVES LIKE AN APP

Everything below was found by walking the real bundle across the real screens
on two phone sizes and measuring it, not by reading the source. Each item is
something a person can see on a phone.


1. THE BACK GESTURE NOW CLOSES WHAT IS ON TOP.

   This is the one that mattered. The sheets, the Pay hub and the confirm
   dialog lived outside the browser's history, so the system Back gesture
   skipped straight past them. On Android, pressing Back with a sheet open left
   the app. On iPhone, swiping in from the edge took the whole screen away with
   a sheet still sitting over it. No installed app behaves that way, and it is
   the loudest difference between an app and a page saved to a home screen.

   Back now peels one layer at a time, top layer first:

     a confirm dialog    is cancelled, and the sheet under it stays open
     the Pay hub         closes, and the screen under it does not move
     a sheet             closes, and the screen under it does not move
     a sheet within a    returns to the sheet that opened it, the way the
       sheet             back arrow in its corner already did
     nothing on top      an ordinary move between screens, as before

   Closing a sheet by hand (the X, the backdrop, Escape) gives the history
   entry back, so the very next Back is a real navigation rather than a press
   that appears to do nothing.

   Every existing way of closing a sheet still works exactly as it did.


2. EVERY CONTROL ANSWERS A TAP.

   The app deliberately suppresses the grey flash iOS paints over a tapped
   control, because that flash is the most website-looking thing a web app
   does. The cost is that any control with no pressed state of its own gives no
   feedback at all, and a tap that shows nothing reads as a miss.

   A walk of the screens found three that had no answer: the Personal /
   Business segment on the landing, the statement period chips, and the small
   dismiss button on the download prompt. All three now use the same press the
   tiles and buttons already use, and all three respect reduced motion.


3. THE FIRST CONTROL A NEW CUSTOMER TOUCHES IS BIG ENOUGH.

   On a short screen the Personal / Business segment was 40px tall, under the
   44px both platforms ask for. Measured before it was changed: at 44px the
   landing still fits with no scrolling on 360x640, 375x667, 360x740, 390x664,
   412x732 and 414x736.


4. THE LAUNCH FLASH IS GONE, ON EVERY iPHONE.

   iOS shows a white rectangle between tapping the icon and the app's first
   paint unless it is given a startup image whose pixel size matches the device
   EXACTLY. The app declared one such image, for one phone — and that file had
   been truncated when it was written: the top 660 rows of 2532 were all that
   was ever there, with no end marker, so it would not decode. Every device,
   including the one it was cut for, got the flash the file existed to prevent.

   There are now eleven, covering every iPhone from the SE to the 16 Pro Max,
   each drawn with the same gradient and wordmark the app paints on its own
   first frame, so the handover is invisible. They are not precached, so first
   load is no slower. A test reads every one of them off disk and fails the
   build if any is truncated or is not the size it claims.

   Regenerate them with verification/make-splash-screens.py.


NOTHING ELSE MOVED

   No screen, colour, spacing, icon, animation or navigation path changed.
   The wallet, transfers, QR payments, tickets, stokvels, TitoKids, merchant,
   staff and rewards flows are untouched.

WHAT PROVES IT

   710 API tests, 7 merchant POS checks, 8 camera scanner checks, 7 event address checks, 12 QR tamper audit checks, 9 share link checks, 12 printed poster scan checks, 8 QR payment integrity checks, 13 money path checks,
   9 business registration checks driven in a real browser,
   98 service-journey checks across both account types with
   both wallets byte-for-byte unchanged, 23 money-screen checks, 19 native
   feel checks and 12 sign-in journey checks driven in a real browser, 7
   shared-link poster checks, 10 landing swipe checks and 8 modal-route
   checks. All green.

UPLOAD NOTES

   Replace the whole app directory as usual, INCLUDING .htaccess, which is
   where the crawler rule lives. The asset stamp moves to ?v=425 in index.html
   and service-worker.js and the cache name becomes
   titopay-pwa-v425-soft-pos, so no customer can be served a cached
   bundle.

   UPLOAD api.zip BUILD 48 FIRST, AND DO NOT DELAY IT. The price fix is
   server-side and the app cannot enforce it: until build 45 is live, a payer
   can still settle a R200 sale for R1.
   On build 43 the shared link still works and the preview still shows a title;
   it just carries no image, which is exactly where it was before. Reprinting the A4 posters is worth doing once this is live,
   but the codes on the sheets already printed keep working exactly as they are:
   only the NAME printed beside them was wrong, never the code.

   UPLOAD api.zip BUILD 43 WITH IT. Both of the recent changes need it: the QR
   owner card needs the details endpoint, and the company registration option
   needs the relaxed capture rule. On an older API both fail safely rather than
   badly, showing the caution card and a refusal respectively. The poster
   changes need no API change at all. admin.zip is unchanged.

   AND RUN scripts/ensure-revenue-wallet.js. If it reports no revenue wallet,
   that is why QR payments fail at Confirm, and no code change fixes it.
