TitoPay deployment build — 2026-08-16 UTC
Branch: claude/peach-payments-403-fix-6sv7cy
API build: 36   (GET /health reports this — check it after upload)
PWA bundle: v412 (titopay-pwa-v412-edge-gesture)
Admin console: admin-console-v89

WHAT CHANGED

   NOTE: build 36 carries NO API change. It moves only so the API and app build
   numbers stay legible as a pair. Everything below arrived in builds 30 to 35.


0. THE DIAGNOSIS NO LONGER NEEDS A SHELL.

   NEW: GET /admin/diagnostics/console, super admin only. It returns exactly
   what `npm run db:diagnose` prints, because both now read the same service
   (src/services/console-diagnosis-service.js) and cannot drift apart:

     - the tables each console page needs, and which are missing
     - the queries the failing panels run, with the real Postgres error + code
     - the save statements behind the buttons that report nothing useful
     - the columns and foreign key count of platform_settings ON THIS DATABASE
     - which provider supplies which capability

   READ-ONLY. Every probe is a SELECT. The four save probes issue real writes,
   because a read that works while a save fails is the whole shape of the
   problem, but each runs inside a transaction that is ALWAYS rolled back. It
   creates, alters and deletes nothing and is safe against production at any
   time. A live harness proves no probe row survives.

   SUPER ADMIN ONLY, deliberately: the report carries real table names and real
   database errors, and that detail must never reach anyone else.

   GET /admin/module-health stopped checking a hardcoded fifteen-table list
   against a schema past a hundred and seventy. It now asks the same map, and
   each table says which console page it stands behind. It also returns the
   API build, so the console can show what it is talking to.

   The script scripts/diagnose-admin-console.js is now only a printer for the
   shared service. Same output, same exit codes, no logic of its own.

0. THE LIMITS SCREEN IS NOW OPERATED FROM THE CONSOLE, and one real hole
   closes on the way.

   THE HOLE. platform_settings.compliance_tier_limits had NO validation, and
   the limit engine reads any non-finite value as "no limit". So a typed
   "25,000" or a stray letter did not fail: it REMOVED the limit and reported
   success. That is the worst failure an editing screen can have, because the
   operator sees a confirmation while the platform quietly opens up. Types and
   ranges are now refused with a message that names the level and the rail.

   Incoherence between rails is WARNED about, never blocked: narrowing one
   rail in a hurry is legitimate and the engine already takes the narrowest of
   everything that applies. The warnings come back on the save response.

   THE WORDING. Five sentences on that screen were hard-coded in the API and
   the app bundle: the lead, the small print, the note for a level with no
   fixed limit, and the two call-to-action hints. They now live in
   platform_settings under limits_screen_content, editable through the console
   and audit-logged. The shipped defaults are the copy that is live today,
   word for word, so nothing a customer reads changes until an admin edits it.

   Three guarantees on that copy, all enforced server side:
     - it never comes back blank; an emptied optional field serves its default
     - it never fails hard on read; a database problem serves the defaults,
       and the app carries its own copy so it renders with no network at all
     - the two caveat sentences cannot be emptied, and no saved sentence may
       claim a regulator sets or allows an amount, call it statutory or
       required by law, use "cash threshold" for a wallet limit, or offer
       "unlimited". The refusal names the sentence and the reason.
       A denial is not a claim: "they are not statutory thresholds" passes,
       "this is the statutory threshold" does not.

   NEW ENDPOINTS: GET and PUT /admin/compliance/limits-content, both behind
   the same "services" permission as the limits themselves.

   NOTE FOR ANY CLIENT OF PUT /admin/compliance/limits: a partial save resets
   every rail it does not mention to the shipped default. That is how the
   merge has always worked and it is what makes a version restore clean. The
   console form sends all three levels in full for exactly this reason.

0. TERMINOLOGY. This build changes what the levels are CALLED and how the
   payload describes them. It changes no limit, no fee and no rule, and the
   customer app does not need re-uploading: every label below is served by
   the API and rendered by the bundle already deployed.

   The first level is "Limited Access", not "Unverified". Nothing in
   TitoPay's approved compliance requirements confirms that a customer may
   transact at that level without whatever customer due diligence applies to
   them, and a product label announcing "unverified" reads as a claim that
   one does. "Limited Access" says what the account MAY DO, which is what a
   product level is for, and makes no statement about compliance either way.
   (The readiness document records the tier labels as "engineering
   placeholders, NOT policy", so nothing was overridden here. If compliance
   later approves "Unverified" in writing, it is a one-line change.)

   The top level no longer describes itself as "Full FICA verification".
   FICA verification is a documentary review, not a generic technical
   verification status, and "Fully Verified" is a TitoPay PRODUCT label, not
   a regulatory classification. It also never implies enhanced due diligence:
   EDD is a specific process that applies where it applies, on any level, and
   most customers at the top level have not been through it. A test fails the
   build if any level's description claims otherwise.

   The disclaimer now denies statutory status of ANY kind rather than only
   FICA: "These are TitoPay operational limits based on its risk management
   and compliance framework. They are not statutory thresholds." A test scans
   the compliance service, the app bundle and the compliance routes for
   claims like "FICA limit", "SARB threshold", "required by law", "cash
   threshold" and "approved by the regulator", and fails on any of them.
   Cash-threshold reporting is a different regime and is never used to
   describe an electronic wallet limit.

   NEW IN THE STATUS PAYLOAD, additively: `accessLevel`, carrying
   { key, label, position, of, monthlyTransactionLimit,
   monthlyTransactionLimitNote }. The product ACCESS LEVEL is now a named
   concept separate from the compliance axes it is derived from, and the
   caveat travels with the number so a client that renders only the figure
   cannot drop it. `tier` and `label` are unchanged, so no existing client
   changes.

1. LIMITS. THREE LEVELS, and the monthly figure is a TRANSACTION VOLUME
   limit and nothing else.

       Unverified       R25 000 cumulative volume a month   (was R5 000)
       Basic verified   R200 000 cumulative volume a month  (was R25 000)
       Fully verified   no fixed monthly transaction limit

   Enhanced due diligence is NOT a fourth level and is not described as one:
   it is a review that can open on any level, and the account keeps working
   and keeps its level while it runs.

   CORRECTION TO BUILD 31. That build scaled the per-payment, daily,
   withdrawal and wallet-balance rails alongside the monthly figure, which
   quietly asserted that a wallet allowed to MOVE R200 000 over a month may
   also HOLD R200 000, and may move R80 000 of it in a single payment. Those
   are four different questions with four different risks. All four rails are
   back on their own values and their own reasoning, unchanged from where
   they were before build 31 and unaffected by the monthly figure:

                        per payment   per day   cash out (single/month)   max balance
       Unverified          R2 500     R4 000      R1 000 / R3 000           R10 000
       Basic verified     R10 000    R20 000     R10 000 / R30 000          R50 000
       Fully verified        none      none         none / none                none

   (The one exception: basic verified monthly withdrawal is R30 000 rather
   than the R25 000 it was, because R25 000 was only ever that number by
   coincidence with the old monthly figure, and carrying a coincidence
   forward makes it look like a decision.)

   A test now fails the build if any of those four rails is ever set to a
   published monthly figure, or rises to within half of the month it sits
   inside.

   TIER 3 IS "NO FIXED MONTHLY LIMIT", NOT "NO CONTROLS". What is removed is
   TitoPay's own standing monthly cap. What still applies at that level, and
   is asserted in the test suite rather than only documented: risk banding
   (the engine applies risk LAST, so a raised risk status gives that level
   real ceilings on every rail), transaction monitoring, sanctions and
   designation screening, enhanced due diligence, ongoing customer due
   diligence, account status, product rules, and whatever the payment or
   payout provider itself will accept.

   READ THIS BEFORE YOU DEPLOY. This ladder is set deliberately ABOVE the
   identity assurance the platform currently holds, and the config file says
   so in full. Unverified means NOTHING is known about the customer, and
   R25 000 of monthly volume now passes through such an account. Basic
   verified proves only that someone entered a well-formed document number no
   other account is using: no Home Affairs match, no document image, no
   liveness check, and R200 000 of monthly volume now rests on that. What
   carries the difference in the meantime is the four rails above plus risk,
   monitoring and screening, until a verification provider is configured
   behind KYC_PROVIDER.

   One knock-on effect to review with compliance, console-editable and NOT
   changed by me, because setting risk parameters without an approved
   specification is not mine to do: edd.singleTransactionReview is R100 000,
   above the R10 000 per-payment cap at basic verified, so the EDD value
   trigger is only reachable at fully verified. (The velocity concern raised
   against build 31 no longer applies: basic verified is back to R20 000 a
   day, well under the R150 000 velocity mark.)

   These are TitoPay operational limits under its RMCP, editable in the
   console without a deploy, versioned and reversible. No figure is a
   statutory threshold and the app never presents any of them as one.

   No fee, no pricing rule and no transaction rule changed. The product caps
   on the gift rail (R5 000 a gift) and the QR rail (R10 000 a scan) are
   unchanged, and they still narrow every level.

2. PROVIDERS ARE NOW REPLACEABLE. Core asks for a CAPABILITY and never for a
   company: processPayment(), processPayout(), verifyIdentity(),
   verifyBusiness(), purchaseAirtime(). Which supplier answers is one server
   side environment variable per capability:

       PAYMENT_PROVIDER=peach_checkout      (default, unchanged behaviour)
       PAYOUT_PROVIDER=peach_payouts        (default, unchanged behaviour)
       KYC_PROVIDER=internal                (default)
       AML_PROVIDER=internal                (default)
       VAS_PROVIDER=none                    (default)

   Leave all of them UNSET and the API behaves exactly as build 29 did. The
   variables exist so a supplier can be changed without a code change.

   The console's routing page no longer names an identity verification vendor
   as the default. It reads "Not configured", because none is contracted.

3. A BUSINESS IS NO LONGER A PERSON. A business now has its own entity, its
   own registration number where its type has one, and its own KYB status.
   One verified person can hold several businesses without re-verifying
   themselves once, and a sole proprietor or informal trader is never asked
   for a registration number they do not have.

MIGRATION

   node scripts/apply-migrations.js
   (or npm run db:apply-migrations, from the API directory)

   New: 20260816_business_entity_verification. It is purely ADDITIVE — three
   new tables and their indexes. It drops nothing, alters no existing column,
   rewrites no row, and touches no user, wallet, transaction, merchant or
   existing business account. The service also creates these tables on first
   use, so the API works before the migration is applied.

IF A CONSOLE PAGE OR A SAVE FAILS AFTER UPLOAD

   cd into the API directory (the same place `npm start` runs from)
   npm run db:diagnose

   It now also prints which provider supplies which capability, so
   "is the KYC provider live?" is one command instead of an investigation.

NOTHING ELSE MOVED

   No fee, no pricing rule, no wallet, no ledger, no authentication path, no
   permission and no existing endpoint changed. Withdrawals, top-ups, QR
   payments, ticketing, stokvels, TitoKids, merchant and staff flows all run
   the same code they ran in build 29 — the payment and payout calls simply
   arrive through the capability layer instead of by name.
